docs/src/infrastructure/networking.md, before:

## <img src="https://fonts.gstatic.com/s/e/notoemoji/latest/1f308/512.gif" alt="🌈" width="20" height="20"> Networking

The homelab network is anchored by a datacenter-grade access switch, primarily operating in Layer 2 mode with BGP for routing. Outside the cluster, a dedicated industrial PC configured with [nix-config](https://github.com/soulwhisper/nix-config/tree/main/hosts/nix-infra) provides essential Kubernetes infrastructure services, including NTP, external-dns, HTTP proxy, and discovery services.

While the majority of my infrastructure and workloads are self-hosted, I rely on the cloud for certain critical components of my setup, as this approach is essential for mitigating several key risks. By offloading these applications to the cloud, I significantly reduce the complexity of maintenance. Specifically, this approach addresses three critical concerns: (1) avoiding chicken-and-egg scenarios, (2) ensuring the availability of mission-critical services regardless of the status of my Kubernetes cluster, and (3) addressing the "hit by a bus" factor—ensuring that vital applications such as email, password managers, and photo storage remain accessible and functional even in the event of an unexpected absence.

While one could theoretically resolve the first two issues by hosting a Kubernetes cluster in the cloud and deploying critical services like [HCVault](https://www.vaultproject.io/), [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/), and [Ntfy](https://ntfy.sh/). The practicality of maintaining another cluster and monitoring a separate set of workloads would incur additional overhead. Moreover, the effort and cost of managing a cloud-based Kubernetes cluster would likely equate to, if not exceed, the savings gained from delegating these responsibilities to the cloud, as described below.

| Service                                   | Use                                                            | Cost          |
| ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| [1Password](https://1password.com/)       | Secrets with [External Secrets](https://external-secrets.io/)  | ~$36/yr       |
| [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/) | Domain, S3 and ZeroTrust                                       | Free          |
| [GitHub](https://github.com/)             | Hosting this repository and continuous integration/deployments | Free          |
| [Pushover](https://pushover.net/)         | Notify app                                                     | One-time $5   |
|                                           |                                                                | Total: ~$3/mo |

This Kubernetes cluster do not utilizes `Multus` for multi-network support with VLAN-based segmentation. The default cluster network operates on `VLAN1` for private address communication. Two specialized networks are provided:

`LAB (VLAN100)`: Directs all public internet traffic through gateway `10.10.0.1`, which serves as a transparent proxy node while preserving direct access to private IP ranges.

`IOT (VLAN210)`: for IoT device communication in `10.20.10.0/24`, supporting multicast and direct IoT connectivity.

```mermaid
graph TD
    A[Pod] --> B[Management Network<br/>VLAN1]
    A --> C[LAB<br/>VLAN100]
    A --> D[IOT<br/>VLAN210]
    D --> E[IoT Devices<br/>10.20.10.0/24]
    C --> G[Transparent Proxy<br/>10.10.0.1]
    G --> H[Public Internet]
    B --> I[Private Network<br/>VLAN1]
```

```shell
# switch example
interface GigabitEthernet1/0/1
 port link-type access
 port access vlan 100
 description k8s-node-01

interface Vlan-interface 100
 ip address 10.10.0.1 24

multicast routing
multicast-vlan 1000
 subvlan 1 100 200 210
```

Commit message:

patch(doc): fix switch example

docs/src/infrastructure/networking.md, after:

## <img src="https://fonts.gstatic.com/s/e/notoemoji/latest/1f308/512.gif" alt="🌈" width="20" height="20"> Networking

The homelab network is anchored by a datacenter-grade access switch, primarily operating in Layer 2 mode with BGP for routing. Outside the cluster, a dedicated industrial PC configured with [nix-config](https://github.com/soulwhisper/nix-config/tree/main/hosts/nix-infra) provides essential Kubernetes infrastructure services, including NTP, external-dns, HTTP proxy, and discovery services.

While the majority of my infrastructure and workloads are self-hosted, I rely on the cloud for certain critical components of my setup, as this approach is essential for mitigating several key risks. By offloading these applications to the cloud, I significantly reduce the complexity of maintenance. Specifically, this approach addresses three critical concerns: (1) avoiding chicken-and-egg scenarios, (2) ensuring the availability of mission-critical services regardless of the status of my Kubernetes cluster, and (3) addressing the "hit by a bus" factor—ensuring that vital applications such as email, password managers, and photo storage remain accessible and functional even in the event of an unexpected absence.

While one could theoretically resolve the first two issues by hosting a Kubernetes cluster in the cloud and deploying critical services like [HCVault](https://www.vaultproject.io/), [Keycloak](https://www.keycloak.org/), and [Ntfy](https://ntfy.sh/). The practicality of maintaining another cluster and monitoring a separate set of workloads would incur additional overhead. Moreover, the effort and cost of managing a cloud-based Kubernetes cluster would likely equate to, if not exceed, the savings gained from delegating these responsibilities to the cloud, as described below.

| Service                                   | Use                                                            | Cost          |
| ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| [1Password](https://1password.com/)       | Secrets with [External Secrets](https://external-secrets.io/)  | ~$36/yr       |
| [Cloudflare](https://www.cloudflare.com/) | Domain, S3 and ZeroTrust                                       | Free          |
| [GitHub](https://github.com/)             | Hosting this repository and continuous integration/deployments | Free          |
| [Pushover](https://pushover.net/)         | Notify app                                                     | One-time $5   |
|                                           |                                                                | Total: ~$3/mo |

This Kubernetes cluster do not utilizes `Multus` for multi-network support with VLAN-based segmentation. The default cluster network operates on `VLAN 100 - 10.10.0.0/24`. IoT device operates on `VLAN 210 - 10.20.10.0/24`. Multicast is supported by the switch.

```shell
# switch example
multicast routing

interface vlan-interface 100
 ip address 10.10.0.1 24
 igmp enable

interface vlan-interface 210
 ip address 10.20.10.1 24
 pim dm
```
